# Original Signal Period to Token Mapping

This is a summary document for investagation on previous researchs about how long and how many channels are encoded into a token.

## Paper: Benchmarking ERP Analysis: Manual Features,  Deep Learning, and Foundation Models

This paper is a benchmark paper, tested the performance of different token content with three backbones (BIOT, LaBraM, CBraMod). 

In this paper's experiments, EEG signal frequency is unified to 200Hz, and three different token content are tested:

- Multi-variate patch embedding: 25 sample points, all channels.
- Uni-variate patch embedding: 100 sample points, one channel.
- Whole-variate patch embedding: 1 sample point, all channels.

The results show that in ERP analysis, Uni-variate patch embedding (100 sample points, one channel) provides the best performance.

## BENDR: Using Transformers and a Contrastive Self-Supervised Learning Task to Learn From Massive Amounts of EEG Data

This paper is one of the earliest work in EEG self-supervised learning.

20 Channels EEG data is used, each token conatains 96 sample points and all channels. What's more, this research uses 1D convolutional layers sliding over the time dimension to encode the signal into tokens, which means there are overlaps between adjacent tokens. 

## BIOT: Cross-data Biosignal Learning in the Wild

This paper applies tokenization to each channel separately, in order to deal with the different number of channels across different datasets. Each token contains 200 sample points, corresponding to 1 second of signal. There is a 0.5s second overlap between adjacent tokens. 

## BrainGPT: Unleashing the Potential of EEG  Generalist Foundation Model by Autoregressive  Pre-training

This paper also uses a tokenization strategy similar to BIOT, with each token contains information from one channel. But the sampling rate is 256Hz, and the Overlap ratio is 0.875, which is very high. What's more, this paper didn't use a FFT based feature extraction which is commonly used in previous works, but directly use the raw time domain signal.

## DeeperBrain: A Neuro-Grounded EEG  Foundation Model Towards Universal BCI

This paper uses 1 channel per token with a sampling rate of 200Hz, there is no overlap between adjacent tokens. This paper uses a 1D convolutional layer to encode the signal into tokens.

